.. _pspcb:

====================
Perspective Cookbook
====================

The Perspective library is built with the ability to extend in mind, but
a good question to ask is *how*?  To answer that, here are some examples that
you might find useful.


.. _pspcb_0:

stringify doesn't look like the app interface in Perspective!!!
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Okay, okay.  Whether you came from :ref:`basicproc` or just decided to...
read, I guess.  I'm sorry I hadn't noticed this earlier okay?  But good
news: you can fix this very easily by subclassing
:class:`PanelFormatter <psp.stringify.PanelFormatter>`! ::

   class MyWayBetterPanelFormatter(PanelFormatter):
       def get_date_string(self, date):
           return date.strftime(f'%A, %b {date.day}, %Y')

   # To use this...
   formatter = MyWayBetterPanelFormatter()
   print(formatter.format(panel))

(note the use of ``%b`` instead of ``%B``)


.. TODO: LINK the get_description() function to the documentation
   of config!!

Writing description
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Sometimes it helps to keep a brief description at the top of a JSON
archive like this:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "desc": "Entries I wrote in 2019! (not factorial btw)",
     "tz": "UTC", "data": [ "..." ]
   }

By default, the
:meth:`JSONLoader.load() <psp.serializers.json.JSONLoader.load>`
method only parses top-level attributes like *tz* and *paths* and
ignores the rest.  This is to give users freedom to put in whatever
they find useful (description, checksums, etc.) without having to
filter them out.

That is to say, there is no canonical key for *description* that is
reinforced by :class:`~psp.serializers.json.JSONLoader` or
:class:`~psp.serializers.json.JSONDumper`, although
*desc* is encouraged and was used in my past code!  As an example,
the ``get_description()`` function in ``config.py`` generated by
``psp init`` tries to query this special attribute::

   def get_description(file, base_dir):
       loader = mystuff.JSONLoader(base_dir=base_dir, error_on_warning=True)
       with open_for_reading(file) as fp:
           data = loader.load_json(fp)
       _, attrs = loader.split_data(data)
       try:
           return attrs['desc']
       except KeyError:
           return None

To dump to a file

   >>> from psp.serializers import JSONLoader, JSONDumper
   >>> import io
   >>> # Create a sample panel
   >>> (p,) = JSONLoader().load_data(
   ...   {'tz': 'UTC', 'data': [
   ...     {'date': '2019-01-01',
   ...      'entries': [
   ...        {'time': '01:00', 'data': 'Hello 2019'}
   ...      ]}
   ...   ]})
   >>> # Your description string, list, whatever idk
   >>> # (nothing's off-limit as long as it is serializable)
   >>> desc = 'Entries I wrote in 2019! (not factorial, again)'
   >>> dumper = JSONDumper(json_options=dict(indent=2))
   >>> with io.StringIO() as fp:
   ...     dumper.dump([p], fp, attrs={'desc': desc})
   ...     print(fp.getvalue())
   ...
   {
     "desc": "Entries I wrote in 2019! (not factorial, again)",
     "data": [
       {
         "date": "2019-01-01",
         "entries": [
           {
             "time": "01:00+00:00",
             "data": "Hello 2019"
           }
         ]
       }
     ]
   }

And goes without saying, this applies for *all* nonstandard top-level
attribute you want to add to the archive...


File types inference
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You may have noticed that (plain and binary are always inferred)

They are controlled by the context in ``filetypes``

There is currently no way to restrict a loader/dumper to a specific context
so if you want to do that you'll have to wrap your code in
``local_context()`` every time.


Swiching to json5
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In case you want comments...


More date, time, and timezone!
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Out of the box JSONLoader only supports ISO format and fixed timezone offset

But you can change that!


Main program: speed?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Quick check by skipping the
:meth:`JSONLoader.load() <psp.serializers.json.JSONLoader.load>`
interface::

    def load_singles(path, encoding, date):
        self.json_loader.configure(base_dir=os.path.dirname(path))
        with open(path, encoding=encoding) as fp:
            data = self.json_loader.load_json(fp)
        panels, attrs = self.json_loader.split_data(data)
        for panel in panels:
            panel_date = self.json_loader.parse_date(panel['date'])
            if panel_date == date:
                yield self.json_loader.process_panel(panel, attrs)
