.. _0.2:

===========
Release 0.2
===========

:Author: rapidcow <thegentlecow@gmail.com>


------------------------------
Release 0.2.0 (in development)
------------------------------

.. .. contents::
..    :local:

.. TODO:

   - [ ] Extensions tutorial
   - [ ] Add a changelog
   - [ ] Documentation everywhere (docstring + reST)


   note that process_entry only requires the class to take in TWO POSITIONAL
   ARGUMENTS: one being date_time and the other being insight

   obj = Entry(date_time, insight)

   instead of

   obj = Entry(date_time)
   obj.insight = insight

   Oh, and I'm only writing .. added:: ... to places where the addition
   is a feature the program didn't HAVE, not one that was previously
   protected/private made public!  Or actually, let's just say... i'm not
   writing any of that, period.  Unless it's in 0.3, in which case i will
   add.  The thing is... there's no point.  There was no documentation
   before that anyways, so stating a "change" that never existed is
   just---sigh.  I hope you get the point.



Attribute protocol!
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

New class: ``Configurable``!
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Extensions!
^^^^^^^^^^^

*  New modules (mention this first): ``captions`` and ``metadata``!
*  See the extensions tutorial


From ``datatypes`` to ``filetypes``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


New class: ``InferenceManager``!
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

JSONLoader
^^^^^^^^^^

*  |load| no longer takes a file path, |load_json| method is added
   (re-added?) as a hook for loading a JSON archive

*  Removed the ``date`` argument in |load| and |load_data|

*  |load| or |load_data| now returns a generator.  Use
   ``list(loader.load())`` to obtain an identical result before.

*  Removed the ``check_panel_duplicates`` option given that |load| now
   returns a generator and the option works on top of the fact that panels
   are loaded entirely a list.  instead, when you do load from a list,
   use a function (copied directly from the code)::

      def check_duplicates(panels):
          # Make a dict with date as keys and indices as values
          panel_dict = collections.defaultdict(list)
          for index, panel in enumerate(panels, start=1):
              panel_dict[panel.date].append(index)

          # We know there are duplicates if any list has more than one index
          for panel_date, indices in sorted(panel_dict.items()):
              if len(indices) > 1:
                  # Sorting 'indices' is trivial here
                  index_str = (f"{', '.join(f'#{i}' for i in indices[:-1])} "
                               f"and #{indices[-1]}")
                  raise ValueError(f'panels {index_str} share the '
                                   f'same date ({panel_date})')

   then something like ::

      with open(file, encoding='utf-8') as fp:
           panel_list = list(loader.load(fp))
      check_duplicates(panel_list)

   should work.

*  parse_datetime(s, tzinfo, fold) parameters are all positional!
   (parse_time(s, tzinfo, fold) similarly)

*  paths option is removed. to extend the lookup paths, you may override
   split_data(), though it is not recommended as lookup paths should be
   sufficiently contained within the JSON archive

*  parameters of process_entry() are now ``(entry, panel, attrs)``
   instead of ``(panel, entry, attrs)``.  No idea why I put *panel* first
   before given how important *entry* is compared to the rest.

.. |load| replace:: :meth:`~psp.processors.json_processor.JSONLoader.load`
.. |load_json| replace:: :meth:`~psp.processors.json_processor.JSONLoader.load_json`
.. |load_data| replace:: :meth:`~psp.processors.json_processor.JSONLoader.load_data`


IMPORTANT!!! now tz and paths are all guaranteed to be set by
split_data()


JSONDumper
^^^^^^^^^^

*  a completely revamped interface!!
*  dump() no longer takes a file path
*  dump_json(data, fp) for interface

   *  data can now be any iterable and JSONDumper won't put them
      all in a list beforehand!

*  handle_datetime() and handle_timezone() removed,
   instead now there's write_entry_date_and_time() and format_timezone()


Streaming interface
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now you can stream data with entries! though you would be responsible
for closing the file-like object...

This can be helpful for remote access.  If one day someone decides to
implement it, that is.

*  Entry.stream_data() should be consistent with Entry.get_data().
   That is, when get_data() returns str, stream_data() should stream str.
   And likewise for bytes.

*  Entry.stream_raw_data() should be consistent with Entry.get_raw_data().

*  For operations possible with file-like objects, refer to the 
   :mod:`io` module.


.. _0.2_panel_and_entry:

Panel and Entry
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*  ``set_source()`` no longer accepts None, use ``set_raw_data(b'')`` instead
*  Entry has ``__init__(time, /, insight=False)``
*  Panel has ``__init__(date, /)``

*  Entry.date_time renamed to Entry.time

*  ``Entry.has_raw_data()`` is removed due to being too ambiguous

   ``get_raw_data()`` still retrieves the raw data depending on
   whether the data is in-memory or stored in a file but
   ``has_raw_data()`` gives off the impression that ``get_raw_data()``
   might return None.  instead, use ``not has_source()``, since it's
   now impossible for source and raw data to be set at the same time.

*  ``Entry.load_data()`` is removed

   having raw data AND source path was simply dumb. what happens
   when the file is changed externally?  our current implementation
   says to prioritize the raw data over source path, but doesn't
   that make the source path essentially ineffective?

   in case anyone REALLY wants to load the data into memory,
   just setting the raw data explicitly will do::

      entry.set_raw_data(entry.get_raw_data())

*  ``Entry.export()`` is removed.  Now with the new streaming interface,
   the lines::

      entry.export(fp)    # fp is a writable binary file-like object
      entry.export(path)  # path is path-like

   may be replaced with::

      with entry.stream_raw_data() as fsrc:
          fp.write(fsrc.read())

      with open(path, 'xb') as fp:
          with entry.stream_raw_data() as fsrc:
              fp.write(fsrc.read())

   To copy by chunks, you can replace ``fp.write(fsrc.read())`` with
   ``psp.util.copyfileobj(fsrc, fp)`` instead (``psp.util.copyfileobj()``
   directly uses :func:`shutil.copyfileobj`, by the way).

   The difference is that it is now up to *you* to decide how exporting
   should work!  Should it write to a different encoding or do you want to
   keep the raw data verbatim?  Should it read in all the data at once or
   write one chunk at a time?

   I can't answer all these questions all at once for everyone, so I'm
   leaving them to you now.

*  ``Entry.set_source()`` no longer checks for file existence


Other Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*  ``util.panels_equal()`` and ``util.entries_equal()`` are removed,
   use ::

      p1 == p2
      e1 == e2

   instead of ::

      panels_equal(p1, p2)
      entries_equal(e1, e2)

   .. XXX i can't italicize *types* here :(

   *  Most of equality is implemented with the equality of each member
      (as described in :ref:`the types module <types>`), with the exception
      of the ``Entry`` class's *time* attribute, which is always converted
      to UTC time before comparison.  (This is to avoid shenanigans of
      interzone comparison (ignores the fold attribute) and intrazone
      comparison (always unequal when ``utcoffset()`` depends on the fold
      attribute).)

*  ``__init__.py`` no longer imports :class:`Panel <psp.types.Panel>` or
   :class:`Entry <psp.types.Entry>`. you have to import explicitly from
   ``psp.types`` now.

*  new convenience functions added! ``util.fileobjequal`` and
   ``util.copyfileobj``

.. TODO: clean up this mess


*  change arguments of the ``JSONLoader.process_entry`` method from
   ``(panel, entry, attrs)`` to ``(entry, panel, attrs)``

   *  it makes more sense as it follows logical order: the part being
      actually processed (entry) and the part being accessed (attrs)

*  make loader and dumper only accept file pointers

   *  load_json() and dump_json() being sole exceptions

*  load_iter(fp): generator

*  loader: attrs are never copied unless absolutely necessary

*  find_paths: a public generator
